All right.
Let's now work on cleaning up that toe and heel.
Now that we have the foot roll rig in place first of all I think all the names here are going to get
in the way for me so when I come back over to the Object data panel and let's turn off the names here
and that helps clean it up a bit.
Now what we need to do is fix this toe.
So if I roll the toe forward you can see it kind of tilts down here like that.
And if I roll this back onto the heel you can see how that heel picks up off the ground there.
So we need to clean these up so the toe and the heel stay planted.
When we roll the foot back and forth.
So first of all let's roll it forward like this and let's take a look at what we can do here.
I think what we need to do is maybe take this whole front part of the toe and just assign it completely
to the toe bone.
So let's go over to weight paint mode on a select the character here.
Go over to weight paint.
Let's shift right click and select that toe and yeah you can see it's kind of green here.
It really needs to be more bright red.
So if we tap into edit mode we'll look at what happens.
We go back to the default pose.
So we need to be able to see our character deformed when we're in edit mode.
So that's controlled in that armature modifier panel just like a subdivision surface modifier is.
So we need to go back to object mode and select our character and let's go over here to the modifiers
panel and these two here we will turn on display modifier in edit mode and we'll also show the edit
cage.
So that should help that.
Let's now go back to white paint mode.
Let's select our toe bone and if we tap into edit mode.
There we go.
Now we can see the mesh and edit mode is staying deformed as well.
All right.
So I think all I really want to do is just select these faces here.
Go over to our vertex groups and with the toe dot l vertex group selected.
I'm just going to click a sign at 100 percent and that pulled it back a bit.
That's not bad.
Yes.
So that helps some there.
All right.
So what about this one here.
Let's choose the foot.
El here and that's got quite a bit of influence up here on the toe.
I think that may be causing our problem.
Let's go back to edit mode and with this still selected.
Let's remove all of this from the foot dot l vertex group click remove.
Oh yeah that helped quite a bit.
Well that's good.
All right.
So now the heel I think for the heel.
What we need to do is maybe come back up here let's uh.
Well first let's take a look at the total press shift right click and choose toe and is there any influence
happening down here from the toe.
Well it's possible it's kind of hard to tell.
I'll go ahead and tab into edit mode and I'll select this edge and I'll remove that from the toe bone
Yeah.
That moved it a bit back.
Maybe we could go ahead and move remove a couple of these.
Yeah they are moving a bit as we click remove although I think we need those with the toe.
So maybe I shouldn't be so hasty I'll just remove the heel.
Let's do that then let's go back to weight paint mode and let's shift right click the lower leg here
and yeah we've got quite a bit of influence happening here so let's tap into Adam mode and let's go
ahead and do that same thing with this edge here and we'll remove it from the lower leg vertex group.
Oh yeah.
Look at that.
That's quite a bit of influence.
So let's remove all of these.
I think all of these down here at the bottom of the foot should be removed from that lower leg bones.
So let's get all of these there and even maybe this one.
Does this have any.
Let's see remove.
Oh yeah.
There was just a little bit there you could see it move.
OK.
So we've removed all of that.
That's good.
Let's go back to pose mode and see what we can see.
So I'll go back to object mode here for the character.
Select a bone.
Let's go to the rotate tool and now let's try and rotate this up and back and that heel.
Yeah.
So you see what I mean there that heel stays planted and that toe stays planted.
That's what we want.
Now there's this kind of very kind of a sharp angle here but you know what.
He's a blocky character.
I'm not sure I care.
I I I think that's OK you know.
Yeah I think I'm OK with that.
All right.
So there we go.
That's what we needed to do.
We needed to remove some from the heel and the toe and even add a little bit on the toe as well.
OK so I'm gonna pass out.
Ah let's go do that on the other one.
I'll select this.
Roll it forward.
There we go.
And let's uh basically do the same thing.
So if I select the character now and we go back to weight paint mode I will shift right click and choose
that toe bone.
All right.
So what we did is we selected this face here.
Right.
And we added or we assigned at 100 percent these points for the toe vertex group a sign there.
Okay.
And then what did we do.
We removed these from the foot vertex group.
Now didn't we.
So let's click remove.
Oh yeah.
There it is.
Okay.
That's good now I think we also removed the influence for the toe back here.
So let's select that toe and hit remove.
Yeah we did that.
Oh the lower leg.
So let's tab it back into white paint mode shift right click.
Lower leg.
And now let's remove the influence from all of this on the bottom.
So let's.
I'm going to hit the three key to go to base mode and I'll just hit the C key and then I can just click
and drag and paint the selection here.
So for all of this we need to remove this from the lower leg vertex group remove okay.
I think that's what we did.
All right.
Let's take a look.
So if we go back to object mode select this the rotate tool now let's see what happens here.
Let's rotate it back and forward.
Yeah I think that toe and that heals it stays pretty well planted.
Now
yeah okay.
So I think that's what we needed to do.
Let's.
I'm just gonna select everything and press Alt are G just to make sure we get back to the default pose
and there we go.
So let's go ahead and press control s and save we can hit the Look Dev.
And here we are.
So now in the next video let's begin working on creating those control objects the objects that will
actually be using to select and animate the character.
So that's coming up next.